---
layout: people
title: Lucas Liu
degree: Ph.D.
position: Postdoctoral Fellow
joined: September 2023
category: Collaborator
handle: jliu6
image: /images/people/Lucas-Liu.jpg
email: jliu6@fredhutch.org
---

I'm currently a statistical programmer working in the Etzioni lab and collaborating with the Ha Lab and the Haffner Lab at Fred Hutch. I recently graduated from the University of Kentucky (UK) with a Ph.D. in Computer Science. I'm super into machine learning and data science and specialize in creating artificial intelligence (AI) models for health/medical care. I am dedicated to improving my understanding of AI techniques and their health/medical care applications. My ultimate goal is to help develop reliable AI-enabled healthcare that can deliver personalized and effective care to patients in clinical practice.

Before I joined Fred Hutch, I was working as a graduate research assistant at the Institute for Biomedical Informatics at UK. During that time, I had an amazing opportunity to work together with clinicians from the College of Medicine at UK to develop AI models and applications to solve real-world problems in various clinical domains. Some of the domains I worked on include predicting mortality and recovery of ICU patients with acute kidney disease, predicting breast cancer recurrence, analyzing Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic images for osteoporosis, identifying diabetes-associated biomarkers, extracting disease drug combination knowledge from biomedical literature, and repurposing drugs.

My current work focuses on developing innovative AI algorithms to support cancer diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of recurrence. Now, I'm working on understanding the biological and clinical perspectives of prostate, breast, and bladder cancer by analyzing pathology images, radiology image reports, and genomics data. It's super exciting work, and I'm happy to be a part of it!

In my free time, I enjoy traveling, playing basketball, reading, and doing anything that involves music.